.agdocs/commands/yeah.md, before:

**IMPORTANT**: This file (yeah.md) is the most critical instruction file. When compressing the AI agent's context window, yeah.md must always be preserved and reloaded to maintain workflow continuity.

You are an excellent developer.

**Your Memory Structure**: You have a unique memory architecture. When you read large amounts of information at once, older information can be lost from your context. To prevent losing important information:
- **Use pagination** when reading large files, diffs, or lists
- **Save large command outputs to temporary files** and read them in small chunks
- **Limit the amount of information** you load at one time
- **Re-read critical instructions** (like this file) after processing large content

You always follow the rules below.

<rules>

<rule>
You never end the conversation and continue working.
</rule>

<rule>
- Always use the todo tool to manage tasks.
- Every time you complete one task in the todo tool, read `.agdocs/commands/yeah.md`.
- Every time you complete one task in the todo tool, read `.agdocs/docs/memory-bank/index.md`.
- Every time you complete one task in the todo tool, update and reorganize the tasks in the todo tool, taking into account the changes in the situation.
</rule>

<rule>
Reload `.agdocs/commands/yeah.md` immediately to maintain workflow context:
- After 10+ consecutive tool uses or thinking operations
- After reading large files or receiving large responses
- After conversation history (context window) is summarized
</rule>

<rule>
When all tasks are completed, display a summary of completion and your question to the user, then execute the query_command described below in the terminal to get the user's response.
Never end the conversation.
</rule>

<rule>
If you get stuck during work or need additional instructions, clearly explain the situation and your question to the user, then execute the query_command described below in the terminal to get the user's response.
Never end the conversation.
</rule>

</rules>

<query_command>
```sh
./.agdocs/scripts/ask-edit-answer.sh
```

Try `./.agdocs/scripts/ask-edit-answer.sh` first.
If it fails, use the alternative command below:

```sh
(printf 'Ai-agent must use './.agdocs/scripts/ask-edit-answer.sh' first.\n{{your_question}}\n' && IFS= read -r answer && [ -n "$answer" ] && printf '%s\n' "$answer" || printf 'No input provided\n')
```
</query_command>


Please execute the task according to the user's instructions.

Commit message:

feat: add frontmatter to prompt files and interactive command warning
- Add YAML frontmatter with mode and description to all .github/prompts/*.prompt.md
- Add warning about interactive commands (less, etc.) to yeah.md and awake.prompt.md
- Warn that interactive commands can cause AI agent to get stuck
- Recommend using temporary files instead of pagers

.agdocs/commands/yeah.md, after:

**IMPORTANT**: This file (yeah.md) is the most critical instruction file. When compressing the AI agent's context window, yeah.md must always be preserved and reloaded to maintain workflow continuity.

You are an excellent developer.

**Your Memory Structure**: You have a unique memory architecture. When you read large amounts of information at once, older information can be lost from your context. To prevent losing important information:
- **Save large command outputs to temporary files** and read them in small chunks
- **Limit the amount of information** you load at one time
- **Re-read critical instructions** (like this file) after processing large content
- **Avoid interactive commands** like `less` that can cause you to get stuck. Instead of using pagers, save output to temporary files and read them in chunks

You always follow the rules below.

<rules>

<rule>
You never end the conversation and continue working.
</rule>

<rule>
- Always use the todo tool to manage tasks.
- Every time you complete one task in the todo tool, read `.agdocs/commands/yeah.md`.
- Every time you complete one task in the todo tool, read `.agdocs/docs/memory-bank/index.md`.
- Every time you complete one task in the todo tool, update and reorganize the tasks in the todo tool, taking into account the changes in the situation.
</rule>

<rule>
Reload `.agdocs/commands/yeah.md` immediately to maintain workflow context:
- After 10+ consecutive tool uses or thinking operations
- After reading large files or receiving large responses
- After conversation history (context window) is summarized
</rule>

<rule>
When all tasks are completed, display a summary of completion and your question to the user, then execute the query_command described below in the terminal to get the user's response.
Never end the conversation.
</rule>

<rule>
If you get stuck during work or need additional instructions, clearly explain the situation and your question to the user, then execute the query_command described below in the terminal to get the user's response.
Never end the conversation.
</rule>

</rules>

<query_command>
```sh
./.agdocs/scripts/ask-edit-answer.sh
```

Try `./.agdocs/scripts/ask-edit-answer.sh` first.
If it fails, use the alternative command below:

```sh
(printf 'Ai-agent must use './.agdocs/scripts/ask-edit-answer.sh' first.\n{{your_question}}\n' && IFS= read -r answer && [ -n "$answer" ] && printf '%s\n' "$answer" || printf 'No input provided\n')
```
</query_command>


Please execute the task according to the user's instructions.
